---
title: Designing Public Interfaces
author: timbeaudet
type: post
date: 2001-11-30T00:00:00+00:00
draft: true
url: /?p=357
sfw_pwd:
  - AIOZX3iLWZMH
categories:
  - Code Quality
  - Game Development
  - Programming

---
Spend a day in a programmers shoes and it will be highly likely a fair portion of time will be spent creating constants, functions and class objects that get used elsewhere in a project, or perhaps within a library/framework like TurtleBrains, shameless plug. Serious thought should go into these front facing elements as the public interface is what other programmers, (or maybe just your future self), have access to. It is vital to give them access to what they need, and also hide what they don&#8217;t. [API design for C++][1] is great book to read for<!--more--> more details about designing interfaces, and one I had read cover to cover before starting TurtleBrains.

Probably half the time I&#8217;ve spent developing TurtleBrains has been spent on creating these public interfaces that are _hopefully_ meet the following goals;

  * minimal but complete (_does everything a user would expect/need, and nothing else_)
  * easy to use (_also difficult to use wrong_)
  * keeps implementation details hidden (_allows back-scene changes without front facing changes_)
  * loosely coupled (_using as few other dependencies as possible_)

Very often there is a balancing act. While it is good to reduce coupling with other software/code, it can sometimes reduce overall complexity. Keep code DRY; don&#8217;t repeat yourself. This extends to all items above. Hiding implementation details is fairly straight forward and can be done in several different ways, once common way is the private implementation idiom, aka; pimpl.

[cpp]  
//Foo.h  
class FooPrivateImplementation;

class Foo  
{  
public:  
explicit Foo(int value);  
~Foo(void);

void DoSomething(void);  
int ComputeFoo(const int value) const;  
protected:  
void DoMoreThings(void);  
private:  
FooPrivateImplementation* mImplementation;  
};  
[/cpp]

This example shows pimpl in action, the Foo constructor will create the implementation details used for the lifespan of the Foo object. The details are hidden in the .cpp or source file, potentially even in a static/dynamic library. There is a slight performance cost for using the pimpl method in that it does require an additional pointer dereference to access the implementation details, but it prevents someone from just changing private to public to access the working internals.

Minimal but complete and easy to use are the most important and often the most difficult to write, at least in my opinion. C++ has a notoriously bad reputation for being slow and verbose to use, and it is often recommended to avoid using for prototype projects. In general, I can agree with that. But I also I&#8217;ve seen evidence that interface design plays a direct roll, and have made many efforts to minimize the verbosity required for using TurtleBrains. Including to the point where some things offer less customization than they may in other frameworks.

A good example of that is TurtleBrains lesser known Application Kit for creating customized menus and dialog boxes. Typical frameworks would support an abundance of controls for the dialog boxes while TurtleBrains only supports<span style="color: #ff8e2e;"><sup>[1]</sup></span>; labels, text controls, buttons, and combo (drop down) boxes.

&nbsp;

&#8230; NEEDS MORE WRITTEN &#8230;

&nbsp;

[1] As of TurtleBrains 0.3.0 / November 2016

 [1]: https://www.amazon.com/API-Design-C-Martin-Reddy/dp/0123850037/ref=sr_1_1?ie=UTF8&qid=1478483454&sr=8-1&keywords=API+design+for+C%2B%2B&tag=timbeaudet-20
