---
title: You Did What? Then What Happened?!
author: timbeaudet
type: post
date: 2001-11-30T00:00:00+00:00
draft: true
url: /?p=89
sfw_pwd:
  - PgXe5Kk1yVUP
categories:
  - Error Handling
  - Programming
  - TurtleBrains

---
Error handling is probably the most overlooked portion when programmers start writing a framework for others to use. When I set out to write TurtleBrains a primary objective with error handling was to remain truly flexible. An error, by the usage here, is the sort of failure that is an unexpected result. Such as loading an asset that is missing, or the data inputs are unexpected.

In a lot of game studios the approach on a missing asset is to crash as soon as possible when an error is encountered. I’ve grown to prefer this approach in my own games, as I’d rather have a crash letting me know that the texture or sprite failed to be created than to let the game continue with a white block representing the player, or worse nothing representing some object. However in the world of application development, exceptions are preferred as they can, if handled, continue on running like nothing happened. _I heard that moan from those with “exceptions are slow, we need performance” stuck in their minds._

TurtleBrains can handle these forms of errors in multiple ways, to allow the programmer or team using TurtleBrains to choose the way that works best for them. Do you want to halt the game, display an error screen with the line number, and failure message? Or would you prefer to catch an exception to be handled and continue on running. Want to do something different? Do it your way.

To achieve this, the core of TurtleBrains defines a pure virtual class, ErrorHandlerInterface, which can be overridden to perform as desired when an error condition is triggered. This interface will give you access to the file and line number, the error triggered on, as well as a formatted message string representing what went wrong. Throwing exceptions or using this custom interface can be toggled at runtime, so you will even be able to use exceptions in portions of code and not others, if desired.

[cpp]  
#define tb\_error\_if(errorTest, message, &#8230;) \  
{ \  
  tbCore::Error::ErrorIf((errorTest), \_\_FILE\_\_, \_\_LINE\_\_, message, ##\_\_VA\_ARGS\\_\_); \  
}  
[/cpp]

This macro is the magic that allows the information about the file and line numbers to be passed down into the error handler. If TurtleBrains::Core::Error::ErrorIf() was used directly, the file and line number would have to be inserted manually, a maintenance disaster, or more likely it’d be left unset and unused.

By using the tb\_error\_if() macro, it is possible to compile the checks out later like would happen with an assert() in a release build. The difference between the two, is tb\_error\_if will trigger when the test condition is true. This is a more natural and readable way to test and declare the failure points in code. It is also allows for more defensive programming practices.

[cpp]  
int PerformPositiveDivision(int numerator, int denominator) {  
tb\_error\_if(denominator < 0, “Unexpected: denominator cannot be negative.”);  
tb\_error\_if(numerator < 0, “Unexpected: numerator cannot be negative.”);  
tb\_error\_if(0 == denominator, “Unexpected: denominator cannot be zero.”);

return numerator / denominator;  
}  
[/cpp]

Obviously a much better way to perform this function would be to make the numerator and denominator parameter types unsigned int instead of int **however this demonstrates the practice of defensive programming** without complications. If the programmer tried to call our PerformPositiveDivision() function with a _negative_ value for either numerator or denominator, an error condition would be triggered. TurtleBrains will then throw an exception or invoke the programmers customized error handler. The important part is to notify the programmer what went wrong so they can, with any luck, fix their inputs to be positive and successfully use the example function.
