---
title: Blog Updates
author: timbeaudet
type: post
date: 2001-11-30T00:00:00+00:00
draft: true
url: /?p=361
sfw_pwd:
  - Vui3tyiy2sqM
categories:
  - Uncategorized

---
Obviously my [2016 goal of writing a post every two weeks][1] won&#8217;t be happening, but that isn&#8217;t a surprise to anyone since I practically gave up [midway through 2016][2]. It may come to a surprise that I&#8217;ve actually posted 12 entries (including the final 2015 one) and written 5 others, so I didn&#8217;t do as bad as I initially thought.

Actually if I continue at the rate I&#8217;ve been writing since end of October, I can easily have written 26 entries by the end of the year, I have more than 5 entries queued up waiting to get released, which is the actual purpose of this post. In September and October I was highly focused on making art every day, or working super focused on ZoomCarWorld3 that I didn&#8217;t take a moment to breathe and comment about what I&#8217;ve learned or accomplished. That is actually what most of the queued posts are about.

I&#8217;ve decided that for as long as I can Monday<sup>[1]</sup> will be the day I release blog entries. I will try keeping a solid queue of them going and will definitely focus efforts on continuing this through 2017 as I have some pretty big plans I don&#8217;t yet want to announce. Mostly for fear of disappointing anyone that actually reads, even if it is just my future self.

But once a week is seemingly too slow, as I have been a little anxious to release some of these entries, so I may on occasion release a second post on Thursday when I have enough content to do so. Thursday will become like a little bonus day. This post, going out on Thursday, is a wee bit late, sue me<sup>[2]</sup>. Since there was no schedule, until just now, I don&#8217;t suspect that should be an issue.

[1] Technically I will probably be posting sometime around or after 9pm eastern on Sunday evenings, but that is already Monday elsewhere in the world anyway.

[2] Don&#8217;t actually sue me, it was the first Thursday post, and the only thing I have worth value is my happiness which nobody can take away.

 [1]: https://www.timbeaudet.com/blog/2015/12/31/goodbye-to-2015/
 [2]: https://www.timbeaudet.com/blog/2016/06/25/midway-point-of-2016/
