---
title: 'mDevelopmentLog[3] = Networking'
author: timbeaudet
type: post
date: 2017-05-22T00:55:02+00:00
url: /2017/05/22/devlog_w03/
sfw_pwd:
  - WYmqVvSzizI1
categories:
  - Code Quality
  - Game Development
  - Programming
  - TurtleBrains

---
Hello Turtles,

This blog post is a week delayed, and I apologize for that. Essentially during the week was spent being ordered by Monky Bird and Sara Cat to revamp the old networking code I&#8217;ve had laying around since 2009 and before, and bring it up to TurtleBrains standards, or at least start<!--more--> the process of doing so. Bringing up to standards was mostly a tedious task, handling errors differently, and ratcheting up the quality by using more modern techniques and other &#8216;rules&#8217; that I&#8217;ve learned to apply to my code through-out the years.

The public facing interface is far from complete, or even much use in a real-world scenario. So for this reason all work done on the networking layer will remain in the unstable area of the TurtleBrains framework until more thought and effort is applied.

I started with basic request/response for HTTP/HTTPS protocols, using libcurl (and thus openssl or other) for help with the SSL/TLS layer. This appears to be working, at least I can pull json files from my server as desired, though I still need to learn how to serve them more dynamically!

For lower-level socket connections UDP was tested, _on Windows only_, in a basic manner having clients &#8216;connect&#8217; to a server and send packets of their cars location and controls. There is a complete trust for the client that data is correct, but for this simple test that isn&#8217;t a problem. **In a real world game that would be a BIG problem.**

Until next week, have a good one!